# Telecom-Churn
The challenges telecom companies face globally are in retaining customers due to increased churn rates, resulting in revenue loss and competitive disadvantages. Though existing churn prediction models are offering some insights yet they often lack the necessary actionable intelligence. The business intelligence systems (BIS) on which companies rely lack predictive churn models. These systems often rely on a reactive approach rather than a proactive one. It means these systems high light churn after it has happened, which causes revenue loss. This is due to limited visibility as static reports fail to provide dynamic insights into evolving churn risks and customer behavior. Lack of adequate customer segmentation hinders the targeted strategies for customer retention. It makes it difficult to understand why the customers are predicted to churn due to the black box nature of majority of machine learning models. This limits the ability to implement effective interventions. Many local telecoms still rely on traditional statistical methods like logistic regression. Due to which they lack advanced insights and proactive strategies for customer retention. This project represents a pioneering approach for improving customer retention in Telecom companies through its innovative AI prediction software solution. It assists CRM professionals by centralizing churn prediction and customer segmentation. It not only predicts but also segments the customers on the basis of the churn probability score. This helps in better decision-making. TeleChurnAI simplifies the process of obtaining churn insights using a dynamic dashboard that helps CRM professionals reduce the customer churn rate and boost retention efforts. This centralized approach not only helps CRM professionals identify high-risk customers but also provides actionable insights. Customer segmentation on the basis of probability assists professionals in personalized retention strategies, targeted marketing campaigns, and improving customer support to help companies grow. TeleChurnAI uses advanced Machine Learning models to predict churn rate, do attribution analysis, and the use of explainable AI helps in better decision-making for high-risk customers. The platform’s design emphasizes user-friendliness, making it accessible to individuals with varying technical skills. The platform includes explainable AI that helps in attribution analysis, and an interactive dashboard that helps for better visualization of data, churners, and non-churners In this project ML ensemble Catboost classifier, and SHAP models are utilized for advanced prediction capabilities to reduce the ”Customer Churn Rate.” As a testament to innovation in telecom sector, TeleChurnAI stands as a comprehensive solution that not only predicts churning customers but also segments them for better decision-making to help CRM for marketing campaigns. This not only helps in reducing the spending cost but also increases the loyalty of customers with the company. With a focus on ease of use, reliability, and continuous improvement, TeleChurnAI is redefining customer retention, ensuring better results for telecom companies and CRM professionals. As telecom company’s data is highly confidential, this limits the prediction of region and country-wise churn drivers. In the future, if PTA releases public datasets, it will help in creating more country-specific models to train them efficiently. Many models are trained on publicly available datasets which are historic, and due to limited access to real-time data streams, this limits the development of real-time monitoring tools. In future work can be done to overcome and train real-time systems. Furthermore, work can be expanded by the integration of sentiment analysis. This can act as a gate for understanding customer sentiments for identifying hidden churn risks.
